# Notes

-  Our economic systems biggest winners are those who monetize the infrastructure of peoples' personal and shared realities. 
- 	The technologies and abilities we have to influence reality have far outpaced the models and methods we have to interact with and understand 	reality.
-	Basic human experience != human nature. Human nature is a myth used to justify and normalize one's own personal reality, experiences, narratives, etc. to then understand the world. But the whole spectrum of human experience is human nature. Individuals just emphasize different parts of it in their own personal reality.
-	A determining adaptive factor in how different realities express influence in the world is how well the premises etc of that reality facilitate collaboration among greater numbers of people. Broad, beneficial collaboration and reality sharing is an adaptive benefit. Worldviews, or realities that an individual chooses to uphold, grow stronger as more people uphold them. With all the normal caveats about what any individual considers "benefit" and "collaboration" to mean.   
-	There is a lot of attention on shared reality in public discourse. There is less attention on personal reality. But large scale patterns in shared reality/society are simply macro representations of the patterns of personal reality of a great many people, and how individuals express their personal reality into shared reality. There is little talk about the loop between personal reality and shared reality, and how aspects or trends in one can (broadly) predictably effect change in the other. 
- "The real test of 'knowledge' is not whether or not it is true, but whether or not it empowers us." Yuval Noah Harari
- Something I've been meaning to get down is the Jesus energy vs Christ energy thing. Assume for a second that narrative and experience do have the ability to meaningfully affect reality. Assume also that at some point there was a dude Jesus who wanted to tell Roman-era Judaens to be nice to each other and to help alleviate suffering. Thirdly, assume that a religion arose whose most holy symbols are the tortured image of the dude Jesus and the instrument of his murder. I reject that. I reject the concept that humans are a fallen species in need of saving. Humans are an ascending species in need of guidance. Anyway, the point is that religion is powerful for a reason, and that it because it contains power. It is malpractice to use that power to glorify death, suffering, and sacrifice. Side note, I suspect that some Christians hate Muslims because Islam is a more effective implementation of the patriarchal, hierarchical, enforced-morality social structure that they both use.  
- The merits of ideological neutrality. Perceiving what Reality is, what its properties and mechanics are, without being limited by only accepting that which fits within a certain ideological lens. 
- Something the Chinese government does very well is steal things that work. That's the nature of information: the more people who use it, the more powerful it is. The more people who CAN use it, the more powerful it is. Intellectual property is useful insofar as people who create shit that's useful ought to be rewarded financially/lifestyle wise for their creation, but the idea that information can be under an individual's sole ownership is absurd. Anyone who encounters information is changed by it, because they have encountered a novelty in their reality. Once an individual encounters information, there is no telling what they will do with it; nor should anyone tell them what they should do with it.
-We must have models that are both individually beneficial and also are not collectively self-terminating. Models that are restrictive individually will not be adopted without threat of violence in some form, and models that are collectively self-terminating will eventually kill us all. So we need an upgrade. 
-Just like general relativity:quantum mechanics, science/objectivity and bhuddhist/experientialism have internally consistent yet mutually incompatible conclusions. Therefore the solution is neither, but both. Just because the answers we get out of the logical end game of both systems don't seem entirely true doesn't mean that we can abdicate the questions.  Refusing to examine our assumptions about reality itself when it is clear that the models we are applying to it will, at current trajectories, result in our extinction is stupid. A new synthesis of models is required. 
-Humans are the species that is most changed by its environment; ergo, we are the most adaptive single species known. Obviously bacteria and ants have primates beat a billion times over, but the person born 200,000 years ago and the person born yesterday are different in virtually every way except genetically.  We also have exponentially greater ability to influence our environment than any other species. This is true for both internal/personal and external/shared environments. 